---
layout: post
title:  "Revolution"
---

What does it mean to be a computer scientist? I've been struggling with this question for a while now, in the attempt to figure out what I want from my life. It's far too easy to fall back on the belief that money is all that is needed to be successful. I believe it's much harder to build something truly marvellous, but this might stem from my perhaps naive childhood dream of changing the world.

The news can be distracting. I find myself speechless at Facebook's ever increasing valuations, its $1,000,000,000 acquisition of Instagram, and the price pop during Twitter's IPO. The question though, are these social networks the answer to the aforementioned "truly marvellous", or do they exist purely to capitalize on society's interminable vanity? I'm inclined to consider the latter, since the content, at least to the shareholder's eyes, seem to be merely filler to place next to a constant stream of advertisements.

My journey to find answers to my personal questions led me to Oxfam Canada in 2011, when I became one of the founding executives of the campus group at the University of Toronto Mississauga. Being involved with Oxfam has made me realize how little I am aware of global affairs. Gradually, the focus drifted away from answering my own questions to just trying to wrap my head around the global impact of our actions. I feel like I will never know what I want in life, nor will I understand the great breadth of political science. I do know one thing however: I still want to change the world, even by the slightest. I want to make it better, and I want to do it through code.

So, what does it mean to be a computer scientist? No different than what it means to be human. We need to use the skills we possess to make the world we live in a better place. I am astounded each day when reading news of [remarkable](http://www.washington.edu/news/2013/09/30/uw-engineers-invent-programming-language-to-build-synthetic-dna/) [feats](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/342/6160/830) that computer scientists are achieving across the globe. That being said, we must invariably exercise caution in order to ensure we are respectful of our neighbours near and far. In the words of the late Jack Layton, "Love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world."
